Removal of deprecations in the Selector widget API
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

RectangleSelector and EllipseSelector
.....................................

The *drawtype* keyword argument to `~matplotlib.widgets.RectangleSelector` is
removed. From now on, the only behaviour will be ``drawtype='box'``.

Support for ``drawtype=line`` is removed altogether. As a
result, the *lineprops* keyword argument to
`~matplotlib.widgets.RectangleSelector` is also removed.

To retain the behaviour of ``drawtype='none'``, use ``rectprops={'visible':
False}`` to make the drawn `~matplotlib.patches.Rectangle` invisible.

Cleaned up attributes and arguments are:

- The ``active_handle`` attribute has been privatized and removed.
- The ``drawtype`` attribute has been privatized and removed.
- The ``eventpress`` attribute has been privatized and removed.
- The ``eventrelease`` attribute has been privatized and removed.
- The ``interactive`` attribute has been privatized and removed.
- The *marker_props* argument is removed, use *handle_props* instead.
- The *maxdist* argument is removed, use *grab_range* instead.
- The *rectprops* argument is removed, use *props* instead.
- The ``rectprops`` attribute has been privatized and removed.
- The ``state`` attribute has been privatized and removed.
- The ``to_draw`` attribute has been privatized and removed.

PolygonSelector
...............

- The *line* attribute is removed. If you want to change the selector artist
  properties, use the ``set_props`` or ``set_handle_props`` methods.
- The *lineprops* argument is removed, use *props* instead.
- The *markerprops* argument is removed, use *handle_props* instead.
- The *maxdist* argument and attribute is removed, use *grab_range* instead.
- The *vertex_select_radius* argument and attribute is removed, use
  *grab_range* instead.

SpanSelector
............

- The ``active_handle`` attribute has been privatized and removed.
- The ``eventpress`` attribute has been privatized and removed.
- The ``eventrelease`` attribute has been privatized and removed.
- The ``pressv`` attribute has been privatized and removed.
- The ``prev`` attribute has been privatized and removed.
- The ``rect`` attribute has been privatized and removed.
- The *rectprops* parameter has been renamed to *props*.
- The ``rectprops`` attribute has been privatized and removed.
- The *span_stays* parameter has been renamed to *interactive*.
- The ``span_stays`` attribute has been privatized and removed.
- The ``state`` attribute has been privatized and removed.

LassoSelector
.............

- The *lineprops* argument is removed, use *props* instead.
- The ``onpress`` and ``onrelease`` methods are removed. They are straight
  aliases for ``press`` and ``release``.
- The ``matplotlib.widgets.TextBox.DIST_FROM_LEFT`` attribute has been
  removed.  It was marked as private in 3.5.
