Raising a figure window no longer steals keyboard focus by default
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Raising a figure window and giving it keyboard focus are now treated as two
independent operations, with a consistent default across all GUI backends:
raising a window no longer transfers keyboard focus unless explicitly
requested.

Previously this behavior was backend-dependent. Some backends (e.g. Qt and
GTK) activated the window and stole keyboard focus from the active application
when :rc:`figure.raise_window` was set, while others (e.g. macOS) only raised
the window in the stacking order. As a result, the same code could behave
differently after merely switching backends.

Now, both the new `.FigureManagerBase.raise_window` method and the raise
triggered by `~.pyplot.show` / :rc:`figure.raise_window` raise the window
without stealing focus. To additionally activate the window and give it
keyboard focus, pass ``with_focus=True``::

    fig.canvas.manager.raise_window(with_focus=True)

On backends that previously stole focus (e.g. Qt and GTK) this restores the
old behavior; on backends that never did (e.g. macOS) it enables focusing the
window as a new capability.

This is a soft change: in the worst case a window that used to grab focus no
longer does so, and any code relying on that can opt back in with
``with_focus=True``.

The behavior is best-effort and platform-dependent. On some toolkits raising
and focusing cannot be fully separated (for example the GTK4 backend, which
can only raise via ``present()`` and may therefore still transfer focus), and
some window managers (notably Wayland compositors) may ignore or modify raise
and focus requests entirely.
